architecture: core: update interrupt handling (#120)
OP-TEE/optee_docs: architecture/core.rst

Native and foreign interrupts
=============================
Two types of interrupt are defined from OP-TEE OS point of view.

    - **Native interrupt** - The interrupt handled by optee_os, secure
      interrupts targetting S-EL1 or secure privileged mode
    - **Foreign interrupt** - The interrupt not handled by optee_os, non-secure
      interrupts targetting normal world or secure interrupts targetting EL3.

For Arm **GICv2** mode, a native interrupt is signalled with a FIQ and a

> foreign interrupt is signalleed with an IRQ. For Arm **GICv3** mode, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
foreign interrupt is signalled with an IRQ. For Arm **GICv3** mode, a
```

foreign interrupts is signalled as a FIQ which could be handled by either
secure world (aarch32 Monitor mode or aarch64 EL3) or normal world.

Arm GICv3 mode can be enabled by setting ``CFG_ARM_GICV3=y``.
Native interrupts must be securely routed to optee_os. Foreign interrupts, when
trapped during secure world execution might need to be efficiently routed to
the normal world.

> IRQ and FIQ keeps their meaning in normal world so there we will use those
> names there instead for clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IRQ and FIQ keeps their meaning in normal world so for clarity we will keep
using those names in the normal world context.
```

**Entry and exit of Trusted OS**

On entry and exit of Trusted OS each CPU is uses a separate entry stack and runs
with IRQ and FIQ masked. SMCs are categorised in two flavors: **fast** and
**yielding**.

    - For **fast** SMCs, optee_os will execute on the entry stack with IRQ/FIQ
      masked until the execution returns to normal world.

    - For **yielding** SMCs, optee_os will at some point execute the requested
      service with interrupts unmasked. In order to handle interrupts, mainly
      forwarding of foreign interrupts, optee_os assigns a trusted thread
      (`core/arch/arm/kernel/thread.c`_) to the SMC request. The trusted thread
      stores the execution context of the requested service. This context can be
      suspended and resumed as the requested service executes and is
      interrupted. The trusted thread is released only once the service
      execution returns with a completion status.

      For **yielding** SMCs, optee_os allocates or resumes a trusted thread

>       then unmasks the IRQ and FIQ lines. When the optee_os needs to invoke the

Reviewer: `optee_os` here is a re-use, but I wonder if it wouldn't be better to replace it with something like "OP-TEE core" or so? Thoughts? (if you agree, then there are a few more locations in this section that needs to be replaced).

Reviewer 2: When there is no ambiguity related to kernel vs. user space, I think `OP-TEE OS` is fine (and preferable).

Reviewer: We have been using OP-TEE OS further down. I'm fine with that as well. It's just the `optee_os` (git name) that felt wrong.

Author: Good, then it's settled.

    == IRQ and FIQ unmasked,\nForeign interrupt received ==
    optee -> optee : suspend thread
    optee -> entry : forward foreign interrupt
    entry -> smon : smc: forward foreign interrupt
    smon -> smon: Save secure context
    smon -> smon: Restore non-secure context
    == IRQ and FIQ unmasked ==
    smon --> nwd : eret: IRQ forwarded
    == FIQ unmasked, IRQ received ==
    nwd -> nwd : process IRQ
    == IRQ and FIQ unmasked ==
    nwd -> smon : smc: return from IRQ
    == IRQ and FIQ masked ==
    smon -> smon : Save non-secure context
    smon -> smon : Restore secure context
    smon --> entry : eret: return from foreign interrupt
    entry -> entry : find thread
    entry --> optee : resume execution
    == IRQ and FIQ unmasked ==
    optee -> optee : process

**Deliver a foreign interrupt to normal world when ``SCR_NS`` is set**

Since ``SCR_IRQ`` is cleared, an IRQ will be delivered using the exception
vector (``VBAR``) in the normal world. The IRQ is received as any other
exception by normal world, the monitor and the OP-TEE OS are not involved
at all.

Deliver secure interrupts to Secure World
=========================================

> A secure (foreign) interrupt can be received during two different states,

Reviewer: `A secure (foreign) interrupt ...` 
Nothing wrong, but add EL3 would make is more clear. Arguable we have the definitions further up, so all information is on the page. It's just that I think it'd be clearer to have EL3 mentioned.

Author: I don't follow. EL3 is mentioned in the next sentence, what did you have in mind here?

Reviewer: Let's ignore my comment, since there is nothing really wrong with the text as mentioned.

either in normal world (``SCR_NS`` is set) or in secure world (``SCR_NS``
is cleared). When the secure monitor is active (Armv8-A EL3 or Armv7-A
Monitor mode) FIQ and IRQ are masked. FIQ reception in the two different
states is described below.

**Deliver secure interrupt to secure world when SCR_NS is set**

> When the monitor traps an secure interrupt exception it:

Reviewer: I wonder if this sentence is wrong. I find it hard to read. It's the end that feels wrong `... interrupt exception it` `s/exception/handles/`?

Author: How about just:
> When the monitor traps a secure interrupt it:

Reviewer: +1 Much better!

    1. Saves normal world context and restores secure world context from last
       secure world exit (which will have IRQ and FIQ blocked)
    2. Clears ``SCR_FIQ`` when clearing ``SCR_NS``
    3. Does a return from exception into OP-TEE OS via the secure interrupt
       entry point
    4. OP-TEE OS handles the native interrupt directly in the entry point
    5. OP-TEE OS issues an SMC to return to normal world

>     6. Monitor saves secure world context and restores normal world context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    6. The monitor saves the secure world context and restores the normal world context
```

>     7. Does a return from exception into restored context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    7. Does a return from exception into the restored context
```

TEE core handles a static number of trusted threads, see ``CFG_NUM_THREADS``.

Trusted threads are expensive on memory constrained system, mainly

> regarding the execution stack size.

Reviewer: `regarding`, what about change to `because of`?

Author: OK
